Assisted Hatching | Shashwat IVF & WOMEN’S HOSPITAL | Best IVF Hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India
Appointments :
(+91)75676-72781
|
Emergency
(+91)74340-50007
| ISO 9001:2015
Home
About Us
About ShashwatIVF & Womens's Hospital
Our Leaders
Our Team
Shashwat Foundation
Our Services
Ob & Gynecology
Fertility
Counselling
Andrology
Endoscopy
IUI
IVF
ICSI
Embryo/Egg/Sperm donation
Vitrification
Embryoscopy
Blastocyst culture
Assisted hatching
Media Coverage
Success Stories
Blog
Contact Us
Contact Us
Connect
Assisted Hatching
Home
Fertility
Assisted Hatching
Assisted Hatching
What Is Assisted Hatching?
After an egg is fertilized in the laboratory, the cells begin to divide. During these initial stages of development, the embryo is contained in a layer of proteins known as the zona pellicuda. In order to successfully implant into the uterine lining, an embryo has to hatch out of the zona pellucida and attach to the walls of the uterus.
Assisted hatching is a newer lab technique that was developed when fertility experts observed that embryos with a thin zona pellucida had a higher rate of implantation during IVF. With assisted hatching, an embryologist uses micromanipulation under a microscope to create a small hole in the zona pellucida. This happens on the fourth day of embryo development when the embryos contain an average of six to eight cells.
The embryos are stabilized by a holding pipette, and on the opposite side a small pipette containing an acidified solution creates a small defect in the zona pellucida. The embryos are then rinsed to remove any excess acid solution and returned to the incubator for a few hours before transfer into the uterus.
Who Should Use Assisted Hatching with IVF?
Assisted hatching is thought to be helpful for couples with a poor prognosis whose embryos are thought to lack sufficient energy to complete the hatching process.
According to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, assisted hatching may be indicated for women with:
advanced maternal age (older than 38)
two or more failed IVF cycles
poor embryo quality
Make an
Appointment
For emergency appointments call
+91-75676-76297
2nd Floor,Nilkanth Palace,
Prahalad Nagar Road,
Opp Seema hall,Satellite,
Ahmedabad - 380015
(+91)79269-31919
admin@shashwativf.com
Useful Links
Home
The Doctors
Ob & Gynecology
Fertility
The Foundation
Contact
Open using QR Code
Connect With Us
Copyright ©2019. All Rights Reserved